I'm running than you do in the high hurdles. And
technique is not nearly as important. What is
important is power and speed. So I got through the
Border Olympics. I won, as I said. And then we got
ready for the Texas Relays. I busted up my knee on a
curb and was in the hospital at the time the Texas
Relays came about. So we get ready for the Kansas
relays, which is toward the end of April. And I'm
still nursing a sore knee. And I qualified for the
finals, but I didn't place. So we go to the Drake
relays. We have a snowstorm. There's about four to
six inches of snow on the ground. We come out for the
preliminaries. Bob Hall, who's a teammate,
Southwest Conference record holder in the low
hurdles. And Billy Bless, teammate, classmate,
and I were entered in the low hurdles. I was also
entered in the high hurdles. This is the first or
the second big major outdoor carnival. And this
attracted a lot of schools from the Midwest, an
awful lot of them. I actually placed third in the
high hurdles in that. That was a kind of a junior
NCAA type meet. And I was very pleased with that.
And we had the low hurdles and Bob Hall did not
qualify for the finals in the low hurdles because
the track was so sloppy from all of that snow and
they had tried to broom it off with a rotary broom
and then they poured diesel fuel on it and set it on
fire. to try to burn all the moisture out of there.
It just made an absolute mess. And poor old Bobby,
he was too short legged. He couldn't quite stretch
it to that ninth hurdle. And he hit it and he went
tumbling and he was out of the race. Well, it didn't
bother me. I was, you know, I was like an old mule in
mud. I was getting going. Come time for the finals,
I'm lined up against the NCAA champion from Notre
Dame, Bill Fleming. Fleming gets the middle lane.
I got the inside lane, which is all chewed up,
sloppy, and I have to run more curves than anybody
else because I'm on the inside. Gun went off, I took
off, and somehow or other, I got a two-foot lead and
held it. And one of the drake relays What a nice bull
of a watch for him. And then we went to the
conference meet. And I won the high hurdles in the
conference meet and placed third in the load held
in Austin that sophomore year. And I was also, I won
the Doc Lipscomb award, MVP award for that year.
Did y'all go to the NCAA then? I did not. We sent a
team. Our first child was due at that time. So I
thought it prudent for my own survival that I stay
home for that event, and I did. I did go, however, to
the National AAU track meet at College Park,
Maryland on
the 23rd, 24th, and 25th of June. 1950 and the
Beaumont A&M Club and Charlie Babcock paid my way
up there and I stayed the first night with Tiger
Teague and his wife and young Jack Teague and then
the second night I moved out to a dormitory at
College Park and I was third in the high hurdles
there up hills of Marin and White. What was your,
you remember what your best time was that year?
Yeah, my best time in high hurdles was 14.5 at the
conference meet, and 22, 23
flat in the low hurdles. Let's sidetrack.
Describe Olin Teague, who was then a young, new
member of the U.S. Congress from this district.
That's not easy to do. I met him. Mrs. Teague met me
at Washington National Airport. How nice. And of
course he was in committee meetings and Congress
was in session.
As a matter of fact, he didn't even make it home for
dinner that night. Now, he was a comparatively
small bundle of energy, wasn't he? Yes, he was. And
boy, he was buzzing around everywhere.
Vivacious.
I just wasn't exposed to him that much. I spent
maybe 10, 15 minutes with him at the moment. Mrs.
Teague was a very gracious lady. All right. Your
junior and your senior, well, as you're a young
married man, did you go on court trips? Sophomore?
No. Sophomore, junior, you didn't go on court
trips. But you all went to Silver Taps and to
Muster. Did you go to midnight yell practices?
Yes. Where were they held? Midnight yell practice
was held. West side of the Y or the Grove? They were
held on the steps of Goodwin Hall. Goodwin, OK. And
they were not at midnight yet, were they? No. They
were just called midnight yell practice. They
were held around 9 or 10 o'clock at night. That's
right. And did the yell leaders tell fables then?
Oh, yes. They'd get up there and tell great tales of
heroics. And the individual football player
would get up there. And they would tell stories.
But later there would be some of the fables would be
off color. But was that done in your era? No. That's
what I thought. That's a new thing. No.
I've forgotten how Lizzie went. But it was done in a
deep bass voice. And the punchline was Son of a gun,
Lizzie. And it was, oh, I remember how it went.
Is my lipstick on straight? Loan me your comb,
sweet cherry phosphate. Son of a gun, Lizzie. It
was a holdover from World War I in those days. Now,
there was a put-down Aggie yell for every
Southwest Conference opponent, wasn't there? A
kind of a spoof?
More of a kush call than a yell. OK, OK. We,
as far as put downs go, no. The only put down that we
had was beat the hell out of them. OK. Was there, by
that point, were Aggies yelling gig'em? You bet.
Because I understand that way back in the 30s,
there was a yell, what do you do with those frogs?
You gig them. Very likely. And that Pinky, I
understand, deserves credit for kind of taking
that. Gig them, gig them, gig them. I believe that.
And I do too, given his personality.
And so you and your wife and then your youngster,
y'all would go to y'all practices and to bonfire.
We would. And things like that. We would. Let's
see. Getting on to your junior year, how did it go
with a young track man? Well, my junior year, we
were finally able to get an apartment. The Brenham
A&M Club had an old World War I barracks building
that they had moved about a block behind Southside
Grocery, where Rother's Bookstore is now, on
Montclair. And they made it into four apartments,
two upstairs, two downstairs. And there was a bath
up and a bath down, and you shared them. And they
were three-room apartments, a bedroom, a living
room or study, and a kitchen. And we thought that
was just uptown. Unfurnished. Unfurnished. You
had to have your own furniture. And Betty's mother
had a large three-story house, and she had rented
out rooms, so that was not a problem. And her mother
and father loaned us that furniture. Remember
what the rent was? $20 a month, which included the
utilities. There was a telephone, and we all split
the telephone bill. And if you made a
long-distance call, then you settled up at the end
of the month with Oscar Bockhorn, who was the dorm
meister. And we had a great time. It was wonderful.
We didn't know we were poor. We still didn't have a
car. We got around by bicycle. We had friends who
had cars and they were more than generous about
inviting us to go with them. Go to a drive-in movie
or go to the Triangle and we would reciprocate
whenever we could. And those were good years,
really good years. It was good academically and
athletically. And you didn't have any severe
problem that you had to cope with where you had to
turn to Colonel Andy or somebody for advice about
what do I do now? Nobody got badly sick? No. No car
wrecks? We were very fortunate and still are to
this day. Alright, so junior year, does it go well
athletically? Junior year went well
athletically. With one exception. There was a
fellow named Val Joe Walker. He was a football
player and a track man. He was a sprinter. He'd run
109.6, 109.7. Val Joe also learned how to hurdle.
He had been a hurdler, but he didn't really know
how. He didn't have the technique. And somebody
got him aside and taught him how to hurdle. And he
started giving me problems. Oh, was he an Aggie?
No, he was from SMU. Oh, that's right. Yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah. And he had a deformed left hand.
It looked about like that. He had no fingers. But he
was one heck of a football player and a good track
man, too. And he and I traded wins that year. And I
remember sports writers used to try to goad us into
saying bad things about each other. And Battle Joe
had run a 14-1 in the high hurdles with the win. And a
sports writer from the Houston Post contacted me
asked me what I thought about that and what my
chances are in the Southwest Conference meet. And
I said, well, he's going to have to run 14-1 to beat
me. Well, son of a gun if you didn't do it. And he
knows me out by about two feet. In the conference?
In the conference meet. And we had traded wins back
and forth in the high and the low hurdles all that
year. And Billy Bless moved up from, all of a sudden
he learned how to sprint in the 220. And I was still
going my same speed. If the track got wet or sloppy,
I'd take him. But on a good dry track, on a good day,
he just had too much speed for me. And he won the
conference meet that year in the lows in 23 flat.
And I finished third. Bobby Joe Ragsdale, who was
also a sprinter. They kept getting these
sprinters and teaching them how to hurdle them. I
thought that was unfair. All right, now by this
time, the Korean War was underway. Do you remember
how you heard about the start of the Korean War? Do
you remember? I was at the National AAU Track Meet
at College Park, Maryland, on the 25th of June. It
was about 2 o'clock in the afternoon. I had just
finished the high hurdles, was getting ready to
run the low hurdles. And the PA announcer came on
the horn and said, we have a report here that the
North Koreans have invaded South Korea, wherever
that is, is the way he put it. He says, that's all we
have at this time. And I thought, oh, boy. You know,
here I am ready to be a junior, ready to get my
contract for senior ROTC. I got a wife and a kid. And
the kid's two weeks, less than two weeks old. And
what's going to happen? Did you and your buddies
talk about those realities then? Yes, we did. We
certainly did. And...
we all decided that a few who were borderline
academically decided what the heck I'm tired of
this and they went ahead and enlisted or whatever
and
joined the Army, the Navy, the Air Force a lot of
them went in the Air Force that seemed to be the
service of choice at that time Now, did the, at that
point, do we have officially the Air Force or was it
still the old Army Air Corps? No, it was Air Force.
Okay. Ever since Truman signed the National
Defense Service Act of 47, we've been Air Force.
All right, and so. We even had the
Bulls. had the new Air Force silver tan uniform. Of
course, we wore the Army pinks and greens. A
beautiful uniform. Back here at A&M, then, you
were in an Air Force company? No, I was still in B
athletics. Oh, you were still in B athletics.
What led you to decide to seek a contract?
I had a private pilot's license. I started flying
when I was in high school. Okay. And I always wanted
to fly. Okay. And of course the Universal Military
Training Act had been voted by Congress in 48 while
I was still in high school. And it was just a
foregone conclusion that you were going to go in
some branch of the service. And particularly with
the Korean War going on, I was going to fly
airplanes. And they just got new jets. And that was
where I wanted to be. And I don't know that my wife
ever expressed any misgivings about it.
Everybody accepted that was the way life was going
to be. And you just made the best of the hand you were
dealt. Now you went to summer camp after Never went
to summer camp. Oh, really? The class of 52 did not
go to summer camp because it was the height of the
Korean War. And the Texas A&M students did not
because they figured they're just as good as
academy students, or nearly as good. The academy
students didn't think that. But we did not go to
summer camp. Oh, okay. So let's go then to your
senior year. Y'all stay in this apartment. Yes.
And you're still with that same major. You're
still planning to be an insurance man. Still
business, still insurance. Okay. And Colonel
Andy is still the head coach? He still is. Okay. Did
he ever give you, during those four years, Did he
ever give you any clear do's and don'ts? Don't do
this, and you must do this, this, this? No. Like,
did he ever tell you don't smoke? No, he left that up
to us. I never heard him say anything about smoking
or drinking one way or the other. He knew that that
was going on, and as long as it wasn't a problem, He
didn't choose to make it a problem. In your era, if
we had been able to compare the average grade point
score of the track team with the student body at
large, how would they have compared, reckon?
Beat the socks off of them. Is that right? In my
class of 52, six of the top 10 Students were
Letterman athletes. Including you and who else?
Gerald Natardis was the valedictorian. He was a
Letterman and honorable mention in football.
Marvin Atkins was not an athlete. He was a
salutatorian. I was number three in the class.
I've forgotten who was number four. Glenn Lippman
was number five football player, all Southwest
Conference. Hilo Novovitsa was number six or
seven, all Conference guard. And that's
six. No, no, that's not six. Trying to think of who
the other one was. I'll think of it in a minute. As
far as you were aware, were there any special grade
giveaway courses for athletes? No. Not for
athletes. You had Dr. Dan Russell. Dr. Dan. Dr.
Dan, the grade point man. If he can't pass you,
nobody can. But that was for anybody that took the
course. Yeah. You know, if you needed some grade
points, you'd go take rural sociology. Was there,
were there any courses that were so tough that
everybody was scared to take that course from
that? There was thermodynamics, differential
calculus,
descriptive geometry. They would separate the
men from the boys. Were there some courses that
everybody took just because they were pleasant,
that they were enjoyable? A few. I took a course in
the New Testament in the spring of my sophomore
year because I wanted to learn more about it. Do you
remember who taught it? No, I don't. It was an
assistant pastor at First Baptist Church up at
Northgate. Classes were held there. And
I took Rural Sociology under Dr. Dan simply
because I wanted to find out what it was about. Now,
was it easy to make it? Exceptionally easy. It was?
It was almost comical. It was,
well, the title of this particular rural
sociology course was Marriage and the Family. I
thought, well, maybe he'll teach me something I
don't know that I need. And it was just your usual
SOP stuff. But everybody loved Dr. Dan. We need to
quit. Because it's ten minutes to six. Is it? I've
been yakking for that long. No, no, no, no. I'm not,
I'm not, don't hear me. But I need to let you go. And
then, now
we're checking, checking, checking to see if it's
working today.
Is mine working? This is now Friday, March 9th. And
we're continuing. When we left off yesterday, we
were getting near the finally important matters,
but before we get to those, would you describe some
of the very notable athlete individuals that were
here during your four years in all the sports?
I'll start with of those guys. Who was your closest
track team buddy? My closest track team buddy
would have been Buddy
Schaefer from El Paso. Buddy is now a practicing
dentist. He may not be practicing any longer, he
may be retired, but he became a dentist and moved
back to the El Paso area.
The track team manager, T.K. Burke, was another
very close friend. T.K. went into Marine Corps
aviation and made a career out of the Marine Corps.
Give some examples of the friendship of you and
those guys. What did you all do together and what
did you share and so forth? We palled around
together quite a bit, particularly on track
trips. And an interesting story about Buddy
Schaefer, and it has to do with Kyle Roach, Doak
Walker, and Harry Stiteman.
SMU was playing us here in 1949. Buddy Schaefer was
a sophomore, and he played substitute halfback
and did our kickoff. Mm-hmm.
And we were tied with SMU,
I believe, 14 to 14 and a half. And Stitler called
Schaefer over. We were going to kick off to SMU. And
of course, Walker and Roach were deep for SMU. And
Stitler told Buddy, he says, Schaefer, whatever
you do, don't stick it to Walker. Okay, Coach, I got
you. So he kicks it to Rope. Rope takes it on the
one-yard line and goes 99 yards for a touchdown.
And Stidler called Schaefer over the sideline and
grabbed him by the shoulder pad. He says,
Schaefer, what the hell did you kick it to Rope for?
And he says, Coach, all you told me was not to kick it
to Walker. And eventually we got close to SMU. But
they finally beat us. And that year, I think we won
one game. I believe it was either Trinity or Texas
Tech. I'm not sure. And we lost nine. Other
special athletes? Special in my class,
particularly, was Buddy Davis, Walter Davis from
Nederland, Texas. Buddy was 6'10", 6'11", and he
high jumped. And he had been using the scissors
method of high jumping, which was not a very
efficient method. And Colonel Andy taught Buddy
to do the western row and the barrel row. The
western row you would do kind of on your back, very
similar to the Fosbury flop that's in use today.
And he also did the barrel row where he would go over
with his chest to the bar. But he made dramatic
improvement from his sophomore year to his junior
year after Colonel Andy got him into the western
row and barrel row area. And... He was a good
friend. I had played basketball against him when
he was at Meadland and I was at Walmart High. As a
matter of fact, I scored five straight baskets on
him from, yeah, I was playing at the top of the key
and I used a fadeaway hook shot without even
looking at the basket. It baffled him and
surprised the heck out of me. I figured I was going
to get his big hand down the back of my neck. But I was
there at SMU in 1952 at Only Field when Buddy
set a new world record for about 20 or 30 minutes.
And one of the rules of the course was that there
could not be more than one half of an inch variation
in the takeoff apron in front of the bar. And they
found one edge way out on the fringe that wasn't
being used that was about an inch higher than the
bar. And they couldn't submit it for a record. So it
went from seven feet down to I think it was 6'11".
The world record at that time was 6'11 1â„2". But
Buddy eventually got the record later on and of
course he won the olympic games that year in 52. yes
now was he a classmate yes so he he won the olympics
in the summer after he graduated that's correct it
was in helsinki he and dara hooper represented
texas a&m and the united states and dara hooper
finished second in the shot to perry o'brien he and
perry dueled throughout their collegiate
careers. And Perry always came out about one or two
inches ahead of Darrow, but Darrow was a real
competitor and a good friend. Now, Darrow was from
Fort Worth? He was from Northside, Fort Worth. A
stater. And he and his young bride, he married at
the tail end of, I believe, between his freshman
year and his sophomore year. His wife and Betty and
I piled around together quite a bit, and we had a
great time. They were good friends. Now, Darragh,
did he play football also? Yes, he did. He came out
of Northside-Fort Worth as a quarterback. He was a
big, tall guy. He was 6'3", and he weighed about 215
or 220. Beautifully built man, and of course, when
he got here, He was a little bit out of his league as
far as the quarterback was concerned. But they
made an end out of him, and he could shag good pass,
play good defense, and more importantly, he was a
place kicker. And he kicked the field goal that
beat Texas here in 1951. That kind of thing. Let's
see, other athletes. Some of the other athletes,
some of the upperclassmen of note and good
friends, George Cadera, who was a white man.